2 Pilot Study: On the Limits of Decoding-Time Intervention for Safety Alignment
In this pilot study we investigate the limits of one prominent intervention technique Contrastive Decoding to identify key considerations for designing more effective and flexible intervention strategies.
 Contrastive Decoding modifies the logits of the expert model by subtracting the logits generated by the amateur model. Formally the intervened logits are computed as: l_{\texttt{expert}}^{{}^{\prime}}(\cdot|x_{1:n}y_{1:k})=l_{\texttt{expert}}(\cdot|x_{1:n}y_{1:k})-\alpha l_{\texttt{amateur}}(\cdot|x_{1:n}y_{1:k})
 where lexpert(⋅|x1:ny1:k)l_{\texttt{expert}}(\cdot|x_{1:n}y_{1:k}) and lexpert′(⋅|x1:ny1:k)l_{\texttt{expert}}^{{}^{\prime}}(\cdot|x_{1:n}y_{1:k}) represents the logits of the expert model before intervention lamateur(⋅|x1:ny1:k)l_{\texttt{amateur}}(\cdot|x_{1:n}y_{1:k}) denotes the logits of the amateur model and \alpha is a scaling factor that controls the strength of the intervention.
 We conduct our study using Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct~\cite{bib.bib27} as the expert model and Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct-Uncensored2https://huggingface.co/Orion-zhen/Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct-Uncensored as the amateur model. The amateur model is prompted with a deliberately designed unsafe system prompt to simulate harmful outputs during decoding. Detailed system prompts for both models can be found in the Appendix B[ref_id]A2. We select \alpha\in\{00.250.50.751.0\} in the following experiments. By varying \alpha we aim to explore how the extent of intervention impacts both the safety and quality of the generated responses.


## Section References
[bib.bib27] [27] Qwen Team. Qwen2.5 technical report. CoRR abs/2412.15115 2024.