3.1 Data Collection
We start with the 6K JSON schemas collected by ~\cite{bib.bib3} from publicly available GitHub repositories and with the set of schemas from the JSON Schema Test Suite~\cite{bib.bib17}. We further collect JSON schemas from other sources such as the JSON Schema Store~\cite{bib.bib27} the GlaiveAI function calling dataset V2~\cite{bib.bib12} and from Kubernetes configuration files~\cite{bib.bib18}. We filter out invalid schemas and standardize the schemas to ensure that they conform to the version of JSON Schema declared2The $schema keyword defined in the JSON Schema specification allows any schema to self-identify which version of JSON Schema it is written for. in each schema
 The GitHub JSON schemas collection from ~\cite{bib.bib3} contains schemas of varying complexity and diversity ranging from simple type constraints to complex constraints with nested objects and arrays. For more fine-grained evaluation we split the data into five collections based on the schema size: trivial small medium large ultra. The suites finalized after all collection and processing are listed in Table 1. We excluded GitHub-Trivial and GitHub-Ultra from the experiments as they were too easy or too hard. However we retained these datasets in the benchmark with GitHub-Ultra serving as an aspirational target for future advancements. For more information on post-processing and dataset splitting we refer the reader to Appendix A[ref_id]A1.
[TABLE START]<table>
	<tr>
		<th>Dataset</th>
		<th>Category</th>
		<th>Count</th>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>GlaiveAI-2K</td>
		<td>Function Call</td>
		<td>1707</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Github-Trivial</td>
		<td>Misc</td>
		<td>444</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Github-Easy</td>
		<td>Misc</td>
		<td>1943</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Snowplow</td>
		<td>Operational API</td>
		<td>403</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Github-Medium</td>
		<td>Misc</td>
		<td>1976</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Kubernetes</td>
		<td>Kubernetes API</td>
		<td>1064</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Washington Post</td>
		<td>Resource Access API</td>
		<td>125</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Github-Hard</td>
		<td>Misc</td>
		<td>1240</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>JSONSchemaStore</td>
		<td>Misc</td>
		<td>492</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Github-Ultra</td>
		<td>Misc</td>
		<td>164</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Total</td>
		<td></td>
		<td>9558</td>
	</tr>
</table>
Table 1: Schema collection metadata.[TABLE END]



## Section References
[bib.bib3] Baazizi et al. (2021) Mohamed Amine Baazizi Dario Colazzo Giorgio Ghelli Carlo Sartiani and Stefanie Scherzinger. A json schema corpus 2021. https://github.com/sdbs-uni-p/json-schema-corpus.
[bib.bib17] JSON Schema Org (2024) JSON Schema Org. Json schema test suite. https://github.com/json-schema-org/JSON-Schema-Test-Suite 2024. URL https://github.com/json-schema-org/JSON-Schema-Test-Suite. Accessed: 2024-12-19.
[bib.bib27] Schema Store Org (2014) Schema Store Org. The largest collection of independent json schemas in the world. https://www.schemastore.org/json/ 2014. A universal JSON schema store where schemas for popular JSON documents can be found. Contributions are welcome; see CONTRIBUTING.md for more information.
[bib.bib12] GlaiveAI (2024) GlaiveAI. Glaive function calling dataset. https://huggingface.co/datasets/glaiveai/glaive-function-calling 2024. Accessed: 2024-12-21.
[bib.bib18] Kubernetes (2022) Kubernetes. Kubernetes json schemas. https://github.com/instrumenta/kubernetes-json-schema 2022. Commit hash 133f848.